when one of my gaming systems
spectacularly failed dumping water down
the entire rest of the rack the most
expensive piece of equipment I lost was
this battery
backup now the obvious thing to do when
a piece of
uh high voltage electrical equipment
gets doused in water would be to buy a
new one but I have a better plan you see
battery backups are expensive and one of
the most important parts the lead acid
batteries seem to be working just fine
no that isn't how I checked them to eBay
I went and while I could have bought a
lightly used unit Sands battery it was
this shipping damaged one that caught my
eye hey tyan have a look at what we're
going to be working on today oh boy
specifically it is thousands of dollars
worth of shipping damage I got this unit
for just 500 bucks meaning that it could
very well be worth the time assuming not
to mention dangerous process of
transplanting the hopefully working
internals from the shipping damaged unit
into the uh well probably still good
steel chassis of the original one so we
can hope that's why I brought tinan he's
going to help make sure that I don't die
today are you out your ug whip well I am
excuse me what are you doing now you can
enter the rich takes to win a Hennessy
Vasa rer 600 a go play disp a truck of
$100,000
cash don't smash the car smash the link
in the description from my point of view
there's two options we can look at the
original unit and try and diagnose what
exactly in it may or may not be dead or
we can look at the new unit which I have
about 12 days to inform the seller if it
doesn't work and we can determine if we
think there's even a chance that
transplanting those parts in here is
going to make this fully functional
let's open up the shipping damaged one
if only there was some way to remove
these fasteners
like a screwdriver from LTT
store.com now I have to confess to you I
did something bad I did open up the
original one to have a look at it I
didn't touch anything which is very
important because more than anything
else we've ever done folks do not try
this at home this is high voltage High
current electrical equipment there are
capacitors in here that if you touch
them you will die and the batteries that
too oh yeah I I fooled around with the
batteries too that's why I'm pretty sure
that they're working but if you wanted
to validate that for me then uh that
would probably be really good U Titan's
background is what are you like
megatronics like mechatronics
engineering yeah yeah so some mechanical
some Electronics oh grief yeah lead acid
batteries he told me when he came in
today that he was worried we might be
doing the lithium ion one I was like no
I know much better than to fool around
with any lithium ion battery this 196
volts it's pretty pretty clear that some
of these boards did get a little bit
rough housed in shipping like this one
yeah that looks very distra I've seen so
much worse than this the outside is
really bad you can tell this thing took
some bangs yeah but like most of it
looks fine what's safe to touch like
these wires for sure yeah this shroud
probably maybe depending what's under it
everything's probably safe but double
check boards designed like this should
have bleed resistors on any of the big
capacitors so they should discharge in a
safe time but you don't want to assume
that right how do we check looks like
there's a whole bunch of touch points on
a lot of the main traces that should be
able to be measured before you get to
probating those should we change gears
and have a look at the water damaged one
to see if there's any clues as to what
we may or may not need to salvage for
sure this could be good because what's
missing from the ship damaged one is all
of the boards associated with the
interface and the display which I mean
clearly didn't get at least much water
on it does anything jump out at you
immediately here it's really
dusty we moved all the equipment in
while the house was kind of still a
construction zone that's on
me I think I noticed something the new
one is
rev03 and the original one is Rev 00p
see even when you revise a product that
doesn't mean that you revise every
component of the product they may be
completely intercompatibility
go wholesale complete change out and
then hope for the best depends on how
much time we have probably first thing
is figuring out if there's anything
obvious that's not connected that's
supposed to be everything should be
connected I haven't actually touched
anything in here because I knew that I
was out of my depth yeah I more meant
like shorts or disconnects oh sure other
possible spots are over the fan here in
fact you can see where the water drips
were coming through here there are no
holes convent over this board which is
good these holes are obviously the relay
right there breaker and then there were
also holes here what's this that's a
plug that oh that should not be a
problem okay and then these holes were
over the battery compartment which
survived and is now completely dry this
happened over a month ago now and it
seems fine I don't think the breakers
are damaged to the point where it would
matter oh really cuz either they're
connected or they're not connected and
they're connected Ed oh
balls it's probably not going to be an
easy fix there's a chance that there's
like some of the fuses for the inputs
blue or okay maybe some of the control
board or what looks like a control board
back here fried uhhuh oh oh oh oh oh
could this be as simple as a safety
feature working for safety and our fuse
blue quite
possibly hey blown
fuses we know this because we're getting
a continuity beep on the shipping damage
unit and we are not getting a continuity
beep on these units this is input from
the batteries to the inverter mhm this
looks like it might be the ground return
maybe no what is that for what I'm
gathering is you don't want to just put
the new fuses in because then we don't
have backup fuses if they blow depends
on how dangerous you want to live cuz
yeah we have one attempt at these fuses
not blowing again right we should
probably take these out of the chassis
okay I can do that cool I'll do that one
one of the things I am concerned about
for this is the second board underneath
which may have been water damaged more
than we can see here and this other fuse
looks like it goes straight down
whenever you're looking at an electrical
system like this for capacitors you want
to look for anything that's 50 volts
rated or higher I would recommend
checking everything but those are the
ones you really want to look for
275 so we want to check the big oh I
didn't even see that one big and then
you want to see look for the two sides
of the capacitor in this case there's a
whole bunch of vas around on these
traces so you can just find traces on
both sides prep across it and you just
want to see that it's zero or close to
zero now I noticed you have this set to
volts DC but this says it's rated for
275 volts ac yeah capacitors are rated
differently for AC versus DC depending
on the type but when you're trying to
make sure something's deenergized you
want to measure DC cuz AC can't exist
when it's unplugged I'm excited they
never let me play with stuff like this
that's why I'm here my only thing is
that if I ever die on camera I expect
the company to monetize it get that
cheddar I know it doesn't matter cuz
they design around it but it always
sketches me out when you screw a metal
screw with a metal washer directly onto
a
PCB I just don't like it well that's
probably a good thing they can cause
fires sometimes while I was doing some
research for this shoot I found a nice
eaten handbook that I found
extraordinarily entertaining oh super
professional oh my God that's Professor
Watson I love him the particular page
that really got me was this
one nine ways beer and UPS's are
alike okay
here she comes oh perfect I can look at
that now okay I'm not going to break
anything
wo nice solder jaw eaten that's quality
didn't realize these were passs for the
ball yeah it took me a minute to figure
that out too they go into what look like
gigantic chunky ground it's it's they're
essentially bus bars between the boards
so that's how they're getting lots of
power in between the two boards without
having turn wires it's kind of funky
though that they just use Giant
standoffs I mean Metal's metal yeah and
if it's metal then it's metal but like
and they're brass look at this Sho we
thought the top was bad yeah look giant
capacitor Bank wa wa look at the size of
the bleed resistors
yeah yeah before we tear them both
completely apart what are the odds that
the short in the breaker would have
caused those fuses to blow it would have
had to have been a short between the
breakers cuz one breaker is a single
phase of power so it have to short
across two phases for those to blow and
in theory these should break if anything
Downstream of them fails but if that
were true then why would you need fuses
anyway uh because you're dealing with
enough power that if something goes
wrong your board's going to melt right
your hands are small right oh yeah cool
that's my superpower I will need your
small hands to get that exact connector
out uh all right cool I think it's dead
I it looks like it's dead I call dead
oh yes okay we found another dead fuse
this time on the bottom board huh all
the fuse is blue the system works oh
yeah okay actually getting a close-up of
the two fuses is probably interesting
cuz here's the noted one oh yeah oh
there's your problem hey we found it we
were looking at the top yeah that's not
good okay that's very not good okay well
no that's great now I know why it's dead
yeah can actually see where some of the
electricity was breaking through the
solder mask around the edge of the trace
oh cool that would have uh electrolyzed
the water so this fuse probably tried to
save everything else but it was
completely soaked in water and never
stood a chance
unfortunately thank you for your
service I found some more hidden and
sneaky shipping damage on one of the
boards that got a little bit crunched oh
it doesn't look like it's damaged it'll
impact anything but I'll be taking a
closer look at this board after we get
it out okay I have bad news I believe
this is a different revision than the
one that's in here so we may need this
board to work yeah like your IC is
completely yeah different from mine
there's the
crunch oh that might be fine yeah like
it's it's it's probably fine that might
just be a ground or something right I'm
not taking everything out of here
because we decided that we were going to
keep the receptacles and also uh the
side is super mangled on this one yeah
for the input so I guess we just leave
all of that which is kind of convenient
because it means we're not actually
rewiring that much so is this it yeah I
think we just put it back together okay
good luck everybody now under normal
circumstances I would absolutely look at
something like this and I'd go oh man
let's just let's do a quick test of it
you know on the bench but we can't we
don't even have a way of connecting the
top board to the bottom board without
screwing the whole thing together anyway
also from a safety standpoint this
chassis protects us from even if we're
careful accidentally touching something
that we really don't want to touch yeah
there were I think 7 or 600 volt caps
under
here looks like I'm now ready for Board
number the two no way yeah I've got my
Breakers almost in dude ni this is going
so fast yeah we're going to plug this
whole thing back together it's going to
turn right on we're going to be like
damn we're really good at this and it
was totally worth it you know we've
actually got a couple of videos coming
soon on the economics of you know buying
broken stuff on eBay and fixing them we
bought half a dozen CPUs and then I
think we bought a bunch of motherboards
then we're going to compare to the
median us wage and see if we could make
a living just like buying things on eBay
and fixing them um this one was unint
this was more just I really really
really really really didn't want to buy
another one I don't know exactly why
these are directional but I do see what
looks like a diode marker on them which
implies it's designed to go in a
particular direction oh generally with
these when they break they're high
enough voltage that it'll maintain an
arc even if the conductor has broken so
they're filled with glass or sand that
act to damp out the arc that's created
okay here's your orientation cool got to
say I kind of feel like I'm waiting for
the other shoe to drop a little bit here
on this project uh same it's going too
good okay this cable was almost
certainly supposed to be routed
underneath but um it makes it which
means that's the last screw what's your
confidence level honestly pretty high
now I have an idea okay I was thinking
we power it up with just the battery
before actually plugging it into the
wall sure okay do you need help no you
sure I'm used to having to carry around
something heavy like this you know with
your tiny hands yeah yeah
yeah squeaky noises in electronics
yay uh BP volt out of range UPS shutting
off battery pack let battery pack the J
of range which is probably too low okay
oh it's probably shutting itself off cuz
because it's too low too low yeah which
so with a wall plug it's probably
fine let's get the cover on
yeah so all I got to do
is slide her in I was about to say
that's the last thing that's broken I
forgot my son's gaming rig is like she's
working but she's
limping he nothing beeped or was
disastrous here goes the plot
I hear the UPS let's go have a look load
knot
powered emergency off says battery pack
voltage out of range but we measured the
voltage at about 200 and on the top of
the unit it says nominal pack voltage is
180 volts so that should be fine yeah
dude tyan oh did we do a dumb uh well we
didn't oh no but I might have see that
little green RPO thing it's supposed to
be jumed oh yeah it is I know the thing
I've meant to put that back in yep
that's
important after painstakingly paying
super careful attention to everything we
did internally I think we just were like
oh we put it back together let's go test
it and I think we might have just missed
that jumper and that might be it well
powered on already okay hold on it's
saying please wait right now it worked
online mode boom we're in oh that was
terrible that sucks yeah let's go she's
on load protected online mode okay okay
yeah yeah yeah I'm plugging the pdu in
okay go for it oh it's
alive it's drawing the power yeah this
right here this is the face of a guy who
just saved thousands of dollars ah
freaking awesome time to get everything
plugged back in probably the worst thing
that I've been doing lately no no it's
not in this is the fact that the 240
volt device on the other end which is
the 115in TV cuz it's China I just
plugged it into a 120 volt outlet and I
was like I don't know maybe it's going
to be fine my understanding is it does
put additional strain on the power
supply but shouldn't kill it immediately
so I'm going to be powering my TV
properly
now properly well properly is you know
you can just re terminate the plug onto
the actual cable instead of Jerry
rigging the cable to another cable right
um yeah but this was convenient because
I think the cable was already in the
wall or something I don't know yeah you
you can terminated to the cable that was
in the wall yeah I don't know there was
a reason I did it that way I can't
remember what it was okay boop boop boop
boop boop and boob 1 and 1 12,000 Watts
no problem baby efficiency 87% I don't
know if that's good but it's good enough
for me and it's good enough to tell you
why would I be working if I could be
driving Hennessy's brand new Vel brother
in Soul Lake City shut up
Dennis
wo Baja
[Music]
mode oh that sounds
crazy oh my god did I just run over
someone now we have the chance to win
this truck home but our sponsor Rich
look at the new Hennessy world how
beautiful oh it's actually salty if this
is not to your tastes how about this
goldplated cyber truck and this is real
gold I'm sure you will get all the
attention you've been dreaming of but
rid I'm more of a real gold
digger oh my Wick fine you can take
this bag of cash home with you instead
from now till September 13 you can enter
the contest with no purchase needed or
get more entries when you spent on the
rich website $1 equals one entry just
make sure you use our Link in the
description denn how did you get into
the car I can't tell if I'm blessed or C
you know both like the
water the random corrosion wouldn't have
happened to someone who was blessed
right but then someone who was cursed
couldn't have possibly gotten a UPS of
that caliber for
$500 and conveniently had someone on
staff who knew how to rebuild it well
yeah that too if you guys enjoyed this
video maybe go check out part one where
the bulk of the diagnosis of the leak
itself took place hey do you want to see
the fitting yes